---
layout: advdefault
title: Legacy

header: "Legacy"
subheader: "Born and Bred to Rip and Shred since 1980"

permalink: /legacy/
---
In 1980 John Huntzinger, Bud Rovee, and two other Purdue waterskiers packed up a car and drove to the P.I.T.S. in Decatur, IL to join seven other teams for the 1980 Collegiate Waterski Regional Championships. Purdue's first waterki team finished near the bottom of the pack, but they had no idea of what was to come. For the next three years this small group of men traveled to Regionals which was the only tournament of the season and was held at the P.I.T.S. each year. Then, in 1984 the Purdue team consisting of John Huntzinger, Mark Cline, Todd Smith, Neil Langacher Jim Rutham, and the first female Purdue waterskier, Ellen Tittman, soared to a second place finish behind Michigan State. This qualified Purdue for its first National tournament in California, hosted by Sacramento State.

Soon after this accomplishment, the club became registered with the University and the first officers on club record became Neal E. Lengacher (President), Todd Smith (Vice-President), Melanie Maxfield (Secretary), and Susanne Snyder (Treasurer). Our first advisor David Ort, from the Building Construction Department. That fall we also hosted the very first Purdue Fall Classic at Camelot Lakes, where it has been held every year since, and grown into one of the biggest Waterski tournaments in the region.

The Midwest Region continued to grow through the 80's with the slow addition of several teams, and additional tournaments in the schedule. The Purdue team continued 
through the 80's and early 90's consistently finishing in the middle of the pack. In 1990 we took on our second advisor Frederick "Fritz" Meuhlhausen, who was also from the Building Construction department.

In 1994 Purdue shocked the Nation by finishing second at the Midwest Regionals behind Michigan State. This time they were off to Milledgville, Georgia for the the 1994 Nationals, hosted by Georgia College. Purdue finished a very respectable 8th place against the best teams in the nation, and gained much respect in doing so. A picture and article in "Waterski Magazine" helped boost the team's recognition and membership as the team started growing exponentially. In 1995 the team logo was designed by club secretary and three event skier Jack Heddon. That year the team finished fourth at regionals out of 15 teams 1996 proved to be a turning point for the Purdue Waterski club. Purdue not only won the Regional tournament for the first time ever, but they made a return trip to Georgia for Nationals where they finished 7th. Even more importantly, Purdue was selected to host the 1997 Nationals. In a unanimous vote by the committee, it was commented they have "never seen a team so organized, hard working, and enthusiastic."

1997 brought another undefeated season to the Purdue Boilermakers who won Ball State Fall Fling, Purdue Fall Classic, Miami Hot Tub Classic, and topped off the season with a repeat victory at the Midwest Regional Championships in Duqoin, IL. The highlight of the 1997 season was yet to come, as the eyes of the nation turned to Purdue and Waters Edge Estates in Wilmington, IL who together would host the first national tournament ever held in the Midwest. The tournament was a huge success, bringing many firsts to the collegiate ranks; an electronic scoreboard, a video production crew, live national anthems, and non-stop action on the water. Not to mention a shore-line packed with fans, and skiers, including 16 teams from "Team Midwest" who came just to cheer and help. It was without a doubt the finest collegiate tournament ever.

1998 proved to be a challenging year for the Purdue Boilermakers. After watching team president Jeff Surdej ski his last Collegiate Tournament at Nationals in '97, Purdue was left running to campus to recruit some new talent. The team came through with an enthusiastic crop of new freshmen, and some older skiers, that came to us for the first time. Purdue still had an unbelievable year finishing in at least the top two in every tournament including regionals, and making a return trip to Nationals for the third year in a row. Purdue had the satisfaction of seeing all their hard work from the '97 Nationals pay off, as host team NLU took some notes, and furnished their site with an electronic scoreboard, various tents and a beautiful site. After watching some amazing skiing and some new national records, Purdue finished in 10th place, and went home to prepare for the next season. 
The Boilers continued to dominate into the twenty-first century.  A stretch from 2003-2009 showed complete Midwest domination with the Boilers winning Regionals 7 consecutive years in a row.  Additionally, Purdue cemented their legacy of greatness with an unheard of 27 consecutive midwest tournament winning streak. Bridget Murphy was a standout in women's jump by soaring into the century club and setting a Purdue team record in 2004. Freshman at the time, Cale Burdick, boosted the team with a historic performance by placing 1st at NCWSA Division 1 Nationals in Men's Slalom, being the first Purdue skier ever to do so. 
With Kurtis Threlkeld as president and with the help of Cris Kodiak as tournament director, Purdue hosted Nationals in 2005 and finished a solid 5th. The lady Boilermakers continued to push limits with Abby Schmitt and Hannah Hustad setting team trick and slalom records, respectively.
Yet, this was only the beginning of a series record shattering seen in 2006 from Cale Burdick and Sergio "Checho" Uribe. In 2006, Regional records were obliterated with Cale Burdick setting a new Men's Slalom record while once again placing 1st at NCWSA Division 1 Nationals in Bell Aqua. Burdick also set a new midwest jump record at the regional tournament. To top it off, Uribe broke the midwest men's trick record, leaving all 3 men's regional records belonging to Purdue skiers. 
Not to be outdone, 2007 showed a remarkable peak in the talent of Purdue skiers. Burdick and Schmitt placed 5th overall at NCWSA Nationals, leading the team to a remarkable 4th place finish, higher than Purdue or any Midwest team had ever achieved. Led by president Abby Schmitt, Purdue hosted All-Stars in 2007 at Water's Edge in Wilmington, IL. 

Despite the loss of key skiers, Purdue continued to show strength and depth in the team up to 2010, which marked the 8th National tournament in a row where Purdue had placed in the top 8 in Division 1. With much help from president Ed Wiley, Purdue became proud owners of their first jump in 2010. This allowed team members to practice jumping at their home site near campus. 

After every peak is a valley, as seen in 2011. The team struggled to stay above other rising, talented teams in the midwest. Purdue qualified for Division 2 nationals, yet not to be disappointed saw some fantastic individual performances. Michael Bullock placed 1st in Men's slalom and Matt McCain podiumed 5th in Men's trick, helping the team to a respectable 2nd place overall finish. 

This valley didn't last long, as new talent and recovery of injury boosted the team in 2012. Lady Boiler Jenna Gilbert set a new team record in Women's slalom early in the season at the Jepawhit Ski Fest. After placing 2nd at regionals and proudly qualifying once again for Division 1 nationals, Purdue finished 7th overall, above all other midwest teams. 

We have seen through the past few years what we hope is the start of a dynasty for the Purdue team. Often praised for its excellent organization, and hardworking members, Purdue hopes that it can serve as group for other teams to emulate, not just look up to. It's up to us to make the future of our sport great, and it looks as though we're on the right path.
